### Chapter 7
A large problem with a system like Agile is the backlog. There are too many old ideas that drag the project down and will realistically never be implemented. The solution that Shape Up offers is the betting table. Every 6 weeks the only ideas taken to the betting table are fresh ideas that people specifically champion. These ideas are always well thought out, scoped, clear ideas. A small backlog can still be kept for the best ideas that are never bet on to ensure that good ideas aren't thrown away, but it shouldn't be a tedious process. The flow of ideas can be maintained with infrequent 1-on-1 meetings between departments to ensure that everyone is on the same page. At the same time, there is too much emphasis put on ideas in the software development workflow by other systems. Every project will have thousands of good ideas, so each one shouldn't be given infinite amounts of time and consideration.

### Chapter 8
An important part of Shape Up is the commitment to the six week cycle for all teams. This has several important benefits. Firstly, you avoid any difficulties with scheduling developers since everyone on the project is working on the same 6 week schedules. Secondly, you are afforded more time than with a conventional 2 week sprint, so less time is wasted in planning and transition in between sprints. Finally, the deadline is still close enough that developers do not lose track of the deadline and they make necessary trade offs to meet the deadline. If a deadline is too distant, developers can wander and get lost.

After the 6 week cycle, developers have a 2 week cooldown to work on parts of the project that they think are valuable. This freedom and rest time increases job satisfaction and decreases burnout. Typically a team is composed of a designer, a developer, and a QA testing person. The projects are sized so that a team of this size can complete it in 6 weeks(big batch) or 1-2 weeks(small batch). The actual betting table consists of only the absolute top level of the C-Suite executives and what happens at the betting table is final. They deliberate on only the pitches that were specifically developed or revived for this betting table, so they are all high quality pitches. Bets are more than just plans, because they expect to have a payout, and the losses are covered. If the bet doesn't pay out, the company can cut it's losses after 6 weeks, the bleeding doesn't last for months and months. Another benefit of a bet, is that it is a promise to developers that they will have an uninterrupted 6 weeks to work on a specific project. Momentum is something that costs a lot of time to build back up, so if you constantly distract and pull developers off of their project for a day or two, you might end up costing weeks of their time worth of momentum. 

Six week cycles also have a circuit breaker approach at their end. If the project isn't complete after 6 weeks, then it's completely scrapped with no extensions. This approach motivates developers to make the necessary trade offs and changes within the 6 weeks in order to deliver the best product they can in the allotted time. To handle bugs, you can either fix them in cool-down, bring a bug to the betting table, or schedule a bug smash. What's most important is that for every cycle, the slate is completely clean. There is no huge overload of past issues and old problems.

### Chapter 9
Shaping a feature for an existing product is like creating new furniture for an already built house. Shaping a new product requires you to define the width and length of each room in the house. Creating new features has 3 phases: R&D Mode, Production Mode, and Cleanup Mode. In R&D Mode, the feature starts as a rough idea, and over the series of several spikes, more information is discovered on the topic and the rough idea turns into a well-formed, well-understood pitch. The goal in the R&D phase isn't to deliver a product, it is simply to develop the foundation that a feature could later be built on. In Production Mode, the main bulk of what we think of as development is completed. Work leaves the senior group, and the normal cycle of shaping, pitching, and betting commences where the goal is no longer to spike, but now it's to ship features. Finally, in the Cleanup Mode, the shaping cycle ends, and a bigger focus is put on bug smashing and 