## Alex

Alex's pitch idea is to unify the 2 seperate back-end components into the one flask server. Currently, the database is being updated periodically with a cronjob set to run every 5 minutes. Sometimes this cronjob doesn't run and the database fails to update which causes problems only found much later in the process. Sometimes the cronjob can be not working for hours or even days. Flask has a scheduler library named APScheduler that could run the database update periodically. However, transferring the cronjob to the APScheduler may result in some issues. Both are coded in python, but since they are run in different environments some work would need to be done to import environment variables and packages into the flask environment. A potential rabbit hole would be this integration, since if something goes wrong, then the potential fixes could take unknown amounts of time.

## Lexi

Lexi's pitch idea is the implementation of a dynamic dashboard. In this dashboard, a user would be able to easily resize and rearrange ui elements on the supervisor dashboard. This is a highly requested feature from our clients and would suit our current project initiative of focusing on quality and user feel over new features. There are some potential rabbit holes, since no one on the team is entirely confident on how this task would be executed and what libraries would be used. It may be advisable to do a spike or some research on the topic first before committing a whole 6 week cycle on it, since currently very little is known on how this would be implmeneted in our project.

## Sonya

Sonya's pitch idea was to transfer the list information on the supervisor view directly to the map. WIP ID, coordinates, and other pertinent information would be displayed when the user mouses over the tag on the map rather than in a list view on the side of the map. The idea behind this pitch is that it would help the user better associate the tag with it's location on the map, since coordinates on their own can seem abstract and unintuitive. The greatest potential issue I see with this pitch is the visual clutter. If more information is added to the tags later down the line, then viewing this information on the map would become increasingly cluttered. Additionally, there are very few downsides to keeping the list view on the side, so adding this feature does not generate very much value and hasn't been specifically requested by the client. It is my belief that this feature would waste time and create more problems than it would solve.

## Gabe

Gabe's pitch idea was to implement a second digital twin that would monitor the hockey side of the application. While this was an original requirement, our requirements since then have changed, and this is no longer considered a priority. This view would be similar to the factory floor digital twin, so a lot of code could theoretically be reused, but there are some important new features that would have to be implemented based on the differences between a hockey rink and a factory floor. Additionally, adding a whole new view would introduce an entire new suite of bugs and QA issues. Since our priority this semester is increased quality and polish, spending six weeks adding an unpolished buggy new feature seems out of touch with our core purpose this semester.