## Daily Stand Up

The Daily Stand Up is a(as the title implies), a daily meeting that is essential in the Agile work style. For every day of the sprint, a daily stand up is done to synchronize the team as a whole. All of the updates of the past 24 hours are explained to the whole group, and plans for the next 24 hours are made. These meetings are very short and aren't meant to drag on or contain a lot of discussion. Elaborate discussion can be done in individual meetings where the whole team isn't bogged down. Additionally, the daily scrum is held at the same time every day to reduce schedule complexity and ensure that everyone on the team can come to the meeting. Usually this takes place in the morning so that plans can be made for the coming work day. 

At every meeting, the daily stand up is used to assess the overall progress of the sprint. These regular evaluations keep a close eye on the overall project and allow project managers to set their expectations and make appropriate plans for next sprint. More than just being updates, the scrum allows the team to work together and decide how to handle the problems as a team. Perhaps, someone who finished their tickets early can provide more support to a team member in order to accomplish the sprint goal. 

While many structures can be used for daily scrums, and one structure is not perfect, the most common type of structure is as follows:
Typically all members will go in order, and on their turn they will "stand up" literally or just figuratively to give their updates. While they are standing up, they will give their updates on what they completed yesterday, what they plan on completing today, and any road blocks they may encounter. 

Typically, even if other team members have opinions on what is said in the stand up, any further discussion is done in individual meetings. The scrum master enforces the 15-minute time boxed meeting, but it is not their responsibility to hold the meeting itself. That responsibility is held by the team. The team and it's members are taught the conventions of scrum and the daily stand up, and it is up to themselves to make sure they follow these conventions. External members typically will not be in scrums, and if they are in scrums they should not disturb the meeting. If an external member needs to give a presentation, or discuss something, it should be done in a seperate meeting to keep the integrity of the scrum.

There are lots of benefits of daily scrums. They streamline the process, eliminiate other meetings, reduce overhead, while still keeping everyone on the team on the same page and ready to assist each other whenever a problem occurs.


## Show Progress

A big problem to tackle in project management is tracking progress. Obviously a project manager doesn't want to waste valuable time by constantly checking in with their team. This annoys the developers, wastes everyone's time, and is inefficient. A slightly naive technique that is sometimes used to track progress is a to-do list. However, using a simple to-do list creates multiple problems. First of all, a to-do list only indicates the tasks that have been defined. If there is a part of the project that is still too early in development to have all the tasks defined, a to-do list would make it seem like these tasks didn't exist at all. If there are currently undiscovered tasks, then they won't show up in a to-do list as well. In a realistic project environment, to-do lists will start off small and will gradually grow as the progress is gained. Working on the project exposes problems and unexpected complexities that add more to the to-do list. This gives the demoralizing impression to the team and project managers that no progress or negative progress is being made.

It might stand to reason that adding estimates to these tasks would help with this problem, since the overall time required to complete the to-do list would shrink even if more items are added. The problem with this is that if the task is relatively unknown, an estimate for the task might be completely off compared to a task that is well understood and has been done many times in the past. 

The proposed solution that shape up recommends is a hill chart. The idea behind a hill chart is that all tasks and pieces of work has two phases. First you figure out your approach, and then you execute it. The "figuring out your approach" phase is going up the hill, then the execution is going down the hill. All tasks of any status from "not started" to "completed" can be placed somewhere on this hill, and the image of a hill gives the viewer an intuitive sense of how far along the project is. The reason why the hill is used is that planning the approach typically feels like an uphill push to reach an approach, then the execution is a downhill release with lots of inertia to execute the plans.

Tracking these dots over time can make it very clear which tasks are road blocked, and which ones are moving without a problem. This gives a much better impression of progress and allows project managers to react to road blocks before they become massive issues. An empty to-do item could be road blocked, or it could have simply not been started yet. An item on the hill chart that is halfway up the hill, but hasn't moved in weeks is most definetely roadblocked and requires attention from the project manager. All of this is discovered without bothering the individual developers too much or wasting too much time with superflous communication