## Podcast Summary:

In the context of Shape Up, a pitch is not a specs, it is simply a direction. It outlines the problem that needs to be solved and is typically 800 words or less with a few sketches. Typically pitches start from a one-liner customer request, but that request is not taken at face value. The one liner needs to be shaped. Often customers don't understand the root idea behind their problem and suggest short-sighted, band-aid fixes. The job of the pitcher is to identify the core issue behind the customer's problem and suggest an improvement that improves the application as a whole, rather than just soothing a small pain. It is important to remember that a pitch is a solution, not an execution. The software developer is given the autonomy to decide on how to execute the given solution. This autonomy increases employee satisfaction and results in a better product. 

Finally, the podcast discussed the subject of rabbit holes and science projects. Rabbit holes are areas where a problem just gets deeper and deeper and you end up swirling down infinitely and waste time and budget. It is important to identify these rabbit holes in the pitching process to avoid wasting development time. A science project is a macro version of a rabbit hole. It is a pitch that has a lower likelihood of success, but may contain lots of value information-wise. While science projects don't add any inherent value to the project, they are still valuable. Finally, there are tracer bullets. Tracer bullets are pitches that lie somewhere between science projects and rabbit holes. Typically they only take a few days and are a shot in the dark to attempt to give information so that future pitchers can map out and budget future projects.
